.TH "YAIM-SGE-UTILS" 1
.SH NAME
The yaim-sge-utils module is a yaim plugin to configure Sun Grid Engine batch system, and to enable 
its proper interaction with an EGEE Computing Element. At the moment, LCG-CE and CreamCE are supported. 
It assumes that the SGE software and that the glite-SGE_utils meta-package are already installed (see 
the "Generic Installation and Configuration Guide for gLite 3.1").


.SH DESCRIPTION
The yaim-sge-utils module allows you to configure the Computing Element to properly interact
with the SGE Qmaster Server which should be running in a different machine.


.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
This is the list of variables needed to set up in order to configure the SGE_utils.
.TP
For more details, please check:
.TP 
.B  https://twiki.cern.ch/twiki/bin/view/LCG/SGE_utils_configuration_variables
.TP
.B Mandatory Variables: 
sys admins must ensure these variables are properly defined according to the features of the site
.TP
site-info.def variables: APEL_DB_PASSWORD, BATCH_LOG_DIR, BATCH_SERVER, CE_HOST, MON_HOST, MY_DOMAIN, QUEUES, SITE_NAME
.TP
APEL_DB_PASSWORD : Database password for APEL.
.TP
BATCH_LOG_DIR : Your batch system's log directory.
.TP
BATCH_SERVER : Your batch server host.
.TP
CE_HOST : Your Computing element host.
.TP
MON_HOST : Your MonBox host.
.TP
MY_DOMAIN : The site's domain name.
.TP
QUEUES : The name of the queues for the CE.
.TP
SITE_NAME : Your site name.
.TP
.B Optional Variables: 
sys admins do not need to change the value of these variables since YAIM provides suitable default 
values in /opt/glite/yaim/defaults
.TP
SGE_ROOT : SGE intallation path. Default is /usr/local/sge/pro
.TP
SGE_CELL : SGE installation cell. Default is default
.TP
SGE_QMASTER : SGE Qmaster port. Default is 536
.TP
SGE_EXECD : SGE execd port. Default is 537
.TP
SGE_SPOOL_METH : SGE spooling method. Only classic is supported
.TP
SGE_SHARED_INSTALL : Set this variable to yes if you are using a SHARED SGE INSTALLATION. In this case, 
SGE will not be configured. Default is no. 


.SH EXAMPLES
How to configure the SGE_utils node.
.TP
.B ./yaim -c -s /root/site-info.def -n lcg-CE|creamCE -n SGE_utils


.SH DOCUMENTATION
You can find useful information on these web pages:
.TP
Entry point for SGE_utils documentation:
.TP
.B https://twiki.cern.ch/twiki/bin/view/LCG/GenericInstallGuide310#The_SGE_batch_system
.TP
Entry point for YAIM documentation:
.TP
.B  https://twiki.cern.ch/twiki/bin/view/EGEE/YAIM
.TP
The Generic Installation and Configuration guides as well as the YAIM guides:
.TP
.B https://twiki.cern.ch/twiki/bin/view/LCG/LcgDocs
.TP
Useful links:
.TP
.B  http://lcg.web.cern.ch/LCG/Sites/the-LCG-directory.html


.SH AUTHORS
yaim-sge-utils was developed by Goncalo Borges, LIP, Lisbon, Portugal
.B goncalo@lip.pt


.SH CONTACT
To contact YAIM people use the 
.B yaim-contact@cern.ch 
email address. 

